README.md, before:

# **Northcoders News API**

# **Built & Designed by Matthew Johnston**

---

## **BACK-END**

- Back-end Hosted Link (RENDER) : https://matt-nc-news.onrender.com
- Back-end Github Link: https://github.com/mjj677/nc-news

---

## **FRONT-END** 

---

## **GENERAL**

'nc-news' or 'The News API' is built on a PostgreSQL backend, engineered using Node.js and Express.js.

The goal was to replicate the core functionality of Reddit.

All of the available endpoints are able to be viewed by going to https://matt-nc-news.onrender.com/api, or by looking in the `endpoints.json` file.

---

# **SETUP & INSTALLATION**

### **REQUIREMENTS**

- Postgres ^v8.11.5
- Node.js ^v22.1.0

### **DEV-DEPENDENCIES**

Specific dependencies can be located in the `package.json` file or here:

- dotenv ^v16.4.5
- express ^v4.1.9.2
- husky ^v8.0.2
- supertest ^v7.0.0

### **CLONING THE REPO**

#### IN THE TERMINAL:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/mjj677/nc-news.git
$ cd nc-news
```

#### SETTING UP THE ENVIRONMENT:

_TWO_ `.env.` files need to be created in order for the app to function as expected.

- `.env.test` containing: `PGDATABASE=nc_news_test`
- `.env.development` containing: `PGDATABASE=nc_news`

### **INSTALLING DEPENDENCIES**

You can install the required dependencies by executing the following command in your terminal:

```
$ npm install
```

### **SETTING UP THE DATABASE AND SEEDING IT**

In order to run the tests for this app, you will first need to initialise the database and seed it:

```
$ npm run setup-dbs
$ npm run seed
```

### **TESTING THE APP**

`jest & jest-extended` are the framework(s) that are used in order to test this app.
In order to run the tests, execute the following command in your terminal: 

```
$ npm run test
```

Commit message:

This commit updates the README.md file

README.md, after:

# **Northcoders News API**

# **Built & Designed by Matthew Johnston**

---

## **BACK-END**

- Back-end Hosted Link (RENDER) : https://matt-nc-news.onrender.com
- Back-end Github Link: https://github.com/mjj677/nc-news

---

## **FRONT-END** 

---

## **GENERAL**

'nc-news' or 'The News API' is built on a PostgreSQL backend, engineered using Node.js and Express.js.

The goal was to replicate the core functionality of Reddit.

---

### ***ENDPOINTS***

All of the available endpoints are able to be viewed by going to https://matt-nc-news.onrender.com/api, or by looking in the `endpoints.json` file.

---

# **SETUP & INSTALLATION**

### **REQUIREMENTS**

- Postgres ^v8.11.5
- Node.js ^v22.1.0
- express ^v4.1.9.2

#### ***NOTE:***

LINUX users: 

- You will need a `user.js` file, containing your postgres username & password, e.g:

```
{ user: 'mjj677', password: 'password123' }
```

- This should sit in the nc-news root directory.

### **DEV-DEPENDENCIES**

Specific dependencies can be located in the `package.json` file or here:

- dotenv ^v16.4.5
- husky ^v8.0.2
- supertest ^v7.0.0

### **CLONING THE REPO**

#### IN THE TERMINAL:

```
$ git clone https://github.com/mjj677/nc-news.git
$ cd nc-news
```

#### SETTING UP THE ENVIRONMENT:

_TWO_ `.env.` files need to be created in order for the app to function as expected.

- `.env.test` containing: `PGDATABASE=nc_news_test`
- `.env.development` containing: `PGDATABASE=nc_news`

## **SCRIPTS**

### **INSTALLING DEPENDENCIES**

You can install the required dependencies by executing the following command in your terminal:

```
$ npm install
```

### **SETTING UP THE DATABASE AND SEEDING IT**

In order to run the tests for this app, you will first need to initialise the database and seed it:

```
$ npm run setup-dbs
$ npm run seed
```

### **TESTING THE APP**

`jest & jest-extended` are the framework(s) that are used in order to test this app.
In order to run the tests, execute the following command in your terminal: 

```
# Test the api:

$ npm test
```
